# Rooter

Rooter changes the working directory to the project root when you open a file or directory.

The project root can be identified by:

- being a known directory;
- having a known directory or file;
- being a subdirectory of a known directory.
- being a direct subdirectory of a known directory

You can also exclude directories.

For a file or directory which doesn't have a root, Rooter can: do nothing; change to the file's directory (similar to `autochdir`); or change to your home directory.


## Usage

By default you don't need to do anything: Rooter will change the working directory automatically and echo the new working directory.

You can turn this off (see below) and use the `:Rooter` command to invoke Rooter manually.

When Rooter changes the working directory it emits the autocmd user event `RooterChDir`.

Rooter will unset `&autochdir` if it's set.


## Configuration


### Which buffers trigger Rooter

By default all files and directories trigger Rooter.  Configure a comma separated list of patterns to specify which files trigger.  Include `/` to trigger on directories.  For example:

```viml
" Everything (default)
let g:rooter_targets = '/,*'

" All files
let g:rooter_targets = '*'

" YAML files
let g:rooter_targets = '*.yml,*.yaml'

" Directories and YAML files
let g:rooter_targets = '/,*.yml,*.yaml'
```


### How to identify a root directory

Set `g:rooter_patterns` to a list of identifiers.  They are checked breadth-first as Rooter walks up the directory tree and the first match is used.

To specify the root is a certain directory, prefix it with `=`.

```viml
let g:rooter_patterns = ['=src']
```

To specify the root has a certain directory or file (which may be a glob), just give the name:

```viml
let g:rooter_patterns = ['.git', 'Makefile', '*.sln', 'build/env.sh']
```

To specify the root has a certain directory as an ancestor (useful for excluding directories), prefix it with `^`:

```viml
let g:rooter_patterns = ['^fixtures']
```

To specify the root has a certain directory as its direct ancestor / parent (useful when you put working projects in a common directory), prefix it with `>`:

```viml
let g:rooter_patterns = ['>Latex']
```

To exclude a pattern, prefix it with `!`.

```viml
let g:rooter_patterns = ['!.git/worktrees', '!=extras', '!^fixtures', '!build/env.sh']
```

List your exclusions before the patterns you do want.


### Non-project files

- Don't change directory (default).

    ```viml
    let g:rooter_change_directory_for_non_project_files = ''
    ```

- Change to file's directory (similar to `autochdir`).

    ```viml
    let g:rooter_change_directory_for_non_project_files = 'current'
    ```

- Change to home directory.

    ```viml
    let g:rooter_change_directory_for_non_project_files = 'home'
    ```


### Running automatically or manually

To toggle between automatic and manual behaviour, use `:RooterToggle`.

To make Rooter start in manual mode:

```viml
let g:rooter_manual_only = 1
```


### Miscellaneous

By default vim-rooter uses `:cd` to change directory.  To use `:lcd` or `:tcd` instead:

```viml
let g:rooter_cd_cmd = 'lcd'
```

To stop Rooter echoing the project directory:

```viml
let g:rooter_silent_chdir = 1
```

By default Rooter doesn't resolve symbolic links in the file or directory which triggers it.  To do so:

```viml
let g:rooter_resolve_links = 1
```


## Using root-finding functionality in other scripts

The public function `FindRootDirectory()` returns the absolute path to the root directory as a string, if a root directory is found, or an empty string otherwise.

